Ackroyd

Chapter One

Sheppard "purposefully delays", "to tell the truth" - wraps the thruth
Repetition of "To tell the turth" "Got into the habit of continually withholding all information possible from my sister"

"moral satisfaction of knowing that I am in no way to blame"jjj

"Surely if a woman comitted a crime like murder she'd be sufficiently cold blooded to enjoy the fruits of it without any weak minded sentimentality such as repentance"

"An overmastering impulse drove her on to get rid of her husband"

Chapter two,
"Our hobbies and recreations can be summed up in 1 word gossip"

"Women in my experience if they once reach the determination to commit suicide, usually wish to reveal the stae of mind that led to the fatal action. THey covet the limelight"

His name, apparently, is Mr. Porrot a name which conveys an off feeling of unrelaity

"Then she declined the tempting red herring"

"People ought to know things, I consider it my duty to tell them. Mr Ackroyd was very grateful to me"

Four

"We feel you are quite an old friend, although we have only really known you just over two years"

"What a fat smug oily face the man hda and surely there was something decidely shifty in his eye"

FIVE

"Man found an open window, climbed in saw Mr. Ackroyd sitting there - maybe he'd fallen asleep. Man stabbed him from behind then lost his nerve and made off."

SIX
"Fiddlesticks that inspecvtor must be a perfect fool" - Caroline

SEVEN

"Caroline does not always understand what I am driving at"
"You haven't got confidence in Inspector Davis" I went on, "Of course she hans't, I haven't either"

"My dear Flora, Are you quite

i wanted to tell caroline that large numbers of murderers have had nice manners

i shall fo through with it to the end, the good dog does not leave the scent remember you may wish that after all you had left it to the local police

the case is going to be as plain as a pikestaff not the least need for amateurs to come butting in" the intrusive verb butting creates a sense of insider outsider

it is completely unimportant that is why it is to interesting

eight

grey celln youve been bitten with all this psychoanalysis stuff, now i'm a plain man.
-> the inspectors own admission he isn't concerned with psychoanlaytical readings of crime

page 74

"He had dropped to his hands and knees and was crawling about the floor" -> A lot more through,

9

"It is a new idea to you that, You had not thought of it before" in reference to his previous comment "Who inherits it" - Shows how poirot thinks outside the box

Sheppard - "Everyone has something to hide", followed by Poirot "Exactly"

"More than ever my friend. But it is not easy to hide things from Hercule Poirot. He has a knack of finding out"

Hector Blunt -> "Inspectors an ass. Everybody knows, utterly absurb to think he could have don eit. man from outside. Burglar chap. That's the only possible solution"

Flora Ackroyd, "20 thousand beautiful pounds" superlative adjective
we learn that with this money she would no longer need to "scheme, scrape or lie"

Poirot stopped and removed a "microscopic weed" fuss about "few microscopic drops of water" and "Poirot tactfully made a diversion"

"finicking habits" it is indeed those habits which aid his detecting

"But I will leave no stone unturned"
eleven
"He said I had the makings of a born detective in me - and a wonderful psychological insight into human nature" - Caroline, again builds upon the notion that the good detectives are psychologically aware

Twelve

Inspector Raglan - > "Im trying to judge the thing fair and square"
"Without overlooking anyone?" -> referring to fingerprints
"The truth however ugly in itself, is always curious and beautiful to the seeker after it"

In reference to "In spite of us all" "Everyone of you in this room is concealing something from me" And, "every pair of eyes dropped before his. Yes, mine as well"

13
Poirot says "I always like to employ the expert" he remarked obscurely, but he refused to explain the remark

"Women observe subconsciously a thousand little details without knowing that they are doing so. their subconscious mind adds these little things together and they all the result intuition, me i am very skilled in psychology i know these things"

"The first thing is to get a clear history of what happened that evening always bearing in mind that the person who speaks may be lying"

"Rather a suspicious attitude" -> "but necessary"

"But you might not be speaking the turth - or the watch you went by might be wrong"

"You do not use your little grey cells"

"This is where we disagree, you and I. Three motives -it is almost too much. I'm inclined to believe that after all ralph paton is innocent"

14
"To Poirot alone belongs the renown of fitting those pieces into their correct place" -> It was rather like a jigsaw puzzle to which everyone contributed their own little piece of knowledge or discovery

"That dreadful little frenchman or belgian - or whatever he is. bullying us all like he did"
"Why should this little upstart of a foreigner make a fuss. A most ridiculous looking creature he is too - just like a comic Frenchman in a rvue"

"Because it's so difficult for a foreigner to see our point of view" jj

In confiding with Sheppard Mrs Roger Ackroyd says "One is forced to adopt little subterfuges in self-defence ->  Mrs Roger Ackroydwanted to search for his will without his consent and doctor it "I thought that if only I could glance over a copy of his will so that I could make my own arrangements"

"It just came to me like a flash, I do things on the spur of the moment" -> in reference to her searching for his will

Caroline, "I am helping him with the case"
to which sheppard responds

"What will she be like with her detective instincts encouraged"

15

"Subtle touch born of his knowledge of human nature. A mixture of fear and guilt had wrung the truth from mrs Ackroyd"

Caroline says to james, "youre not so honest thats all. you always have to pretened"

Poirot "Scoundrel who rerrorised mrs ferrars"

Poirot says to sheppard "WHich, by the way, you would probably never have thought of questioning" , a passing thing to say in regards to the drawing room flowers being freshjjj


Poirot, "Many crimes have been committed for the sake of less than 500 pounds. It all depends on what sum is sufficient to break a man.

Poirot goes as far as in Chapter 15, "[Wanting] to reconstruct some of his [Parker's] actions on that night"
"a foreign custom, sir," said parker. "Reconstruction of the crime they call it, do they not"

16 evening at mah jong
Miss gannet, "I've just been reading a book from the library about the underworld of Paris and it says that some of the worst women criminals are young girls with the faces of angels"

"You're a sly dog, hand in glove with the great detective and not a hint as to the way things are going. James is an extraordinary creature, he cannot bring himself to part with information"

17 PARKER

"Do not play the farce of the honest, injured man. You know all there is to know about blackmail."

"I thought that if Mr. Ackroyd was being blackmailed why shouldnt I have a share of the pickings"

Parker made over 1000 pounds from major ellerby
Collect quotes from Mrs Ferrars letter, to rewrite the cruelty essay

"Twenty thousand pounds" "In one year" -> was the amount sheppard extorted out of mrs ferrars

"Let us take a man  a very ordinary man a man with no idea of murder in his heart there is in him somewhere a strain of weakness deep down. it has so far never been called into play. perhaps it never will be and if so he will go to his grave honoured and respected by everyone. but let us suppose that something occurs...

18
In chapter 18 in passing inspector raglan reveals how he dismissed Poirots fingerprint hypothesis as "Dismissed it as hardly feasible"


"you seem to know a hell of a lot about everything you little foreign cock duck.":w


19
Floras own admission "I stole. I am a thief a common fulgar little thief, Wanting things scheming for them, lying cheating, unning up bills, promising to pay"


This essay aims to sharply define "cruelty" and argue each reading with supportive textual detail.

There is indeed much debate within.
This essay aims to argue each reading with their respectice supportive textual detail.

"In Agatha Christie's novel 'The Murder of Roger Ackroyd,' one of the central themes under scrutiny is the manifestation of cruelty. Cruelty, at its core, can be described as the deliberate infliction of harm or suffering upon others. However, the spectrum of cruelty is far from monolithic, encompassing a range of behaviors, motivations, and interpretations. Beyond the conventional definition, cruelty might also be perceived as the byproduct of societal norms, personal vendettas, or psychological complexities. As we delve into the narrative, we must navigate the multifaceted nature of cruelty, exploring not only its explicit manifestations but also its subtler, more insidious forms. By examining these varied perspectives on cruelty, we can gain deeper insights into the characters' actions and motivations, shedding light on the intricate web of relationships and moral ambiguities that drive the story's intrigue."

20
21

page 286

"Dr sheppard has been a model of discretion" said poirot drily "but me i discover all little secrtes, it is my business" contrast this to patons view of sheppard, which is indeed reflective of kings aboot, "dr sheppard has been very loayl"j

gatsby

25 the whole truth
"I'm inclined to reserve all judgements"
"a pigheaded chap like him it was my best chance of getting him not to read it" "didnt i subconsciously realise that with a pigheaded chap"

"his nervousness that night was interesting psychologically he knew danger was close at hand. and yet he never suspected me"

"Not that I take any responsibilty for Mrs Ferrar's death. It was the direct consequence of her own actions. I feel no pity for her"
"I have no pity for myself either"

gatsby

chapter 1

1. conduct may be founded on the hard rock or the wet marshes but after a certain point i dont care what its founded on

gatsby who represented everything for which i have an affected scorn

no gatsby turned out all right in the end it is what preyed on gatsby what foul dust flaoted in the wake of his dreams

west egg vs east egg,

"their physical resemblance must be a source of perpetual confusion to the gulls that fly overhead" their dissimiliarity in every particular except shape and size,j

factual imitation of some hotel de ville in normandy, spanking new thin beard of raw ivy

it was a body capable of enermous leverage - a cruel body

just becuae im stronger and more of a man than you are

"girl fool"


"where ashes take the form of houses and chimneys and rising smoke and finally with a transcandent effrort (analyse this word) men move dimly (anemic? like wilson poor economic condition) crumbling? (find suffering essay) powedery air

immediatly ash grey men swarm up obscure operations

tj eckleburg

blonde spiritless man anaemic, when he saw us a damp gleam of hpoe sprang into his light blue eyes
so dumb he doesnt know hes alive

"they say hes a nephew or a cousin of kaiser wilhelms" "I'm scared of him, I'd hate to have him get anything on me"7

"I almost made a mistake too", she declared vigroously "I almost married a little kyke whod been after me for years. I knew he was below me."

making a short deft movement tom broke her nose, blody towels, long broken wail of plain

3
"They thought he killed a man once" never confirmed or deniedA
"german spy during the war" "Ill bet he killed a man"












ATONEMENT

chapter 1

"Love which did not build a foundation on good sense was doomed"

her wish for a harmonious organised world denied her the reckless possibilities of wrongdoing

a love of order also shaped the principles of justice with death and marriage the main engines of housekeeping the former being set aside exclusively for the morally dubious the altter a rewrard witheld until the final page

"that lola was 15, bitter domestic civil war" should hav mattered more to Briony

this was precisely why she loved plays or hers at least everyone would adore her

RICHARD II
"Anger at a kings arbitrary rule leads to his downfall and sets in motion a decades long struggle for the crown

Act 1 S1 Mowbray "Each day.. Add an immortal title to your crown"

Despite Mowbray, being accused of "receiving 8000 nobles, for lewd employments... all the treasonsf or 18 years complotted and contrived in this land, fetch from false mowbray", "plot[ted] the duke of gloucesters death, sluiced out his innocent souul through streams of blood"

Richard - "Impartial are our eyes and ears, free speech and fearless I to thee allow"

"Lets purge this choler without letting blood"
"deep malice makes too deep incision, forgive forgive, conclude and be agreed, this is no month to blled" - RIchard's aversion to bloodshed is his weakness!

"Richard" says, lion makes leaponrds tame

mowbray responds "Ay but not change his spots"

"we were not born to use but to command which since we cannot do to make you friends be ready as your lives shall answer it"

act 1 scene 3

richard stops the fight, "and list what with our council we have done, for that our kinggdoms earth should not be soiled, our eyes do hate the dire aspect of covil wounds"

"And for we think the eagle winged pride of sky aspiring and ambitoius thoughts with rival hating envy,"

"tread the stranger paths of bunishments, cousin hereford, upon pain of life"

richrad shows too much kindness thats his fatal error, now observe chris,t, "For that our kingdoms earth should not be soiled with that dear blood which it hath fostered"

page 37, bolinbrokes unchecked ambition? "that sun that warms you here shall shine on me, and those his golden beams to you here lent shall point on me and gild my banishment"

richard is hesitant "I with some unwillingness pronounce"

"Never to return, dateless limit of thy dear exile, upon pain of life I brathe against thee" -> he suffers

"heavy sentence, the language he leartn of 40 years, he must forgo. too old to fawn upon a nurse, too far inyears to be a pupil now" -> very sad look, "what is thy sentence then but speechless death" -> "then thus i turn me from my countrys light to dwell in solemn shades of endless night"

page 41, "Uncle even in the glasses of thine eye, i see thy grieved heart, thy sad aspect"

page 43, "thy son is banished upon good advice" listens to advisers and commits a mistake
"wherete thy tongue a party verdict gave"
gaunt says, "things sweet to taste prove in digestion sour"

page 49, act 1 scene 4, "Ourself and bushy, bagot here and green observed his courtship to the common people how he did seem to dive into their hearts with humble and familiar courtesy, what reverence he did throw away on slaves, , off goes his bonnet to an oysterwench"

"And had the tribute of his supple knee, with thanks my countrymen and living friends," "as were our england in reversion his, and he our subjects NEXT DEGREE IN HOPE"

Greens bad advice, "Well, he is gone and with him go these thoughts, Now for the rebels..."And

Richard is a landlord of England, "We are enforced to farm our royal realm, the revenue whereof shall furnish us"

"now put it god in his physicians mind, help him to his grave immediately, lining of his coffers shall make coats to deck our soldiers"


Ask chatgpt about this "vex not yourself nor strive not with your breath, for all in vain comes counsel to his ear"

York, page 59 act 2 scene 1, gaunt is dying, "No it is stopped with other falttering sounds, as praises of whose taste the wine are fond, reports of fashion in proud tialy"

gaunt says, "his rash fierce blaze of riot cannot last, for violent fires soon burn out themselves, small showers last long, but sudden storms are short"

"consuming means, soon preys upon itself"

gaunt, "this land of such dear souls, this dear dear land, dear for her reputation through the world, is now leased out, like to a tenement or pelting farm"

"England that was wont to conquer others, hath made a shameful conquest of itself"

page 63, Richard says, "should dying men flatter with those that live?"
"no, no men living flatter those that die"

gaunt while dying says, "A thousand flatteres sit within thy crown"
"it were a shame to let this land, landlord of england art thou now, not king, thy state of law is bondslave to the law"

richard wants the "plate coin revenues and movables whereof our uncle gaunt did stand possessed" effectively strips bb of his inheritance

page 71, york advises richard that bb is a "well deserving son", a lot of good quotes on page 71 act 2 scene 1, but richard again dismisses this with "think what you will, we seize into our hands..."

"The king is not himself but basely led by flatteres and what they will inform merely in hate, gainst any of us all, that will the king severely prosecute, gainst our lives, our children and our heirs"

page 73, ross says "the commons hath he pilled with grievous taxes, and quite lost their hearts, the nobles hath he fined for ancient quarrels and quite lost their hearts"

ross, "he hat not money for these irish wars, his burdenous taxations notwithstanding, but by the robbing of the banished duke"
willoughby says "the king grown bankrupt like a broken man"

northumberland says, "most degenerate king"

"reproach and dissolution hangeth over him"
page 75

act 2 scene 2 it is revealed that "banished bolingbroke repeals himself and with uplifted arms is safe arrived at ravesprugh"

perhaps due to his poor kingshpi "the lord northumberland, his son young harry percy, the lords of ross, beaumont and willoughby, with all their powerful friends, are fled to him" - richard cannot maintain alliances?

"whereupon the earl of worcster hath broken his staff, resigned his stewardship and all the household servants fled with him to bolingbroke"

york page 84, "Your husband he is gone to save far off, whilst others come to make him lose at home, here am i left to underpro his land."

york act 2 scene 2, "The nobles they are fled, the commons they are cold"

york, "What are there no posts dispatched for ireland, how shall we do for money for these wars?"

york is undecided? "Both are my kinsemen, t one is my sovereign, whom both my oath and duty bid defend and the other is my kinsman whom the king hath wronged, whom conscience and my kindred bids to right"


bbagot act 2 scene 2, "and that is the wavering commons, for their love lies in their purses and whoso empties them by so much fills their heart with deadly hate"

and bushy responds saying "wherein the king stands generally condemned"
